# No rain, no roof

*2021-06-06*

When we got our first little MX-5 I made up a new rule, "No rain, no roof".  Living in the UK, you don't get endless sunny days, so if you waited until the sky was cloud free you'd never put the bloody thing down.  To make the most of it you've got to throw that rag top back at every opportunity, and adjust with the situation.

On warm days that's easy, throw the roof back, find the scratched Beach Boys CD from the glove compartment, and away you go, cruising around at a sensible pace because at the end of the day, a standard MX5 isn't a bully engined sports car, it's a fun little roadster.  If the aircon still works, turn it up so you don't completely roast and away you go, good times ahead, rolling like it's going to be an endless summer

On those days where it's a bit grey and overcast, but it's not that cold and it's definitely not raining, crack on.  Fold the roof down (take the time to let the car run for a few minutes with the heating on to soften the roof and window a little), pop the heating on switch up the tunes from sunny days Beach Boys to The Shins, or The Pixies or maybe a bit of Nick Drake and go enjoy the whizz and zoom of outdoor driving.  Yes, it'll look a bit incongruous and you'll pick up a few stares from people in their funny little modern souless boxes, but you'll feel better for it, I promise.

Then there are those days where it's just plain silly to put the roof down.  It's properly cold, maybe a touch frozen even, your hands will get cold, the top of your head (irritatingly always just above the line of the windscreen) will catch the wind and anybody you pass will assume the roof is stuck.  Ignore these suckers.  Turn the heating up, wear a hoodie or a bobble hat, break out the properly radgy tunes (I've a promo collection of The Prodigy for this) and watch that rear end in the frosty corners.

What about those days when it's not raining but it looks like it might?  By now you know the rules, no rain, no roof.  Make the most of it. Enjoy the thrill that it might suddenly blow up a hooley and you'll get caught.  As the first drops start to fall you'll realise that the shape of the car and the flow of air keep the worst off you, so long as you're doing over 30mph you're just fine.  Now you get to bask in the glory of points and stares from other motorists, shaking their heads at the lunatic with their roof down, grinning like a dance floor fool as even the spray from other vehicles is whipped away behind you.  Yes, now you have to switch to driving to avoid stopping, sliding lanes to avoid the stationary traffic, timing your approaches to the lights so you never quite stop and maybe making a little progress where you shouldn't, but that's all part of the game, now you're living No Rain No Roof to it's fullest.

Many years ago I was walking from my shared house to a university lecture with my then best mate and we had a conversation that stuck in my head all these years later.  They fancied a bacon sandwich and asked if I knew where did a good one.  I was both painfully frugal and mostly broke, so I didn't, but the there was a bakery on the corner that I knew did sell them, so I pointed it out.  "But is it a great bacon sandwich, you know, on good bread with properly thick bacon?" he asked.  I'd no clue, and for 99p I wasn't expecting it to be the height of local organic cuisine and so I said as much, "It's 99p so it'll be two pink slices of pigs arse in a burger bun".  He passed on it and lamented how hard it was to get a "really good sandwich" whilst I quietly fumed, not really sure why.

It took me years to realise why this whole situation got my back up so much, the irony being that I'd now not buy a crap bacon sandwich because of my views on meat production, but what was frustrating me then was that he was always questing for the best and perpetually slightly disappointed, in everything.  I'm sure that on that hungover plodge to another 9am lecture in our second year would have been mildly better for having spent the 99p.  I wish I had, even now.  I could have afforded it, and the strange pride I took in my masochistically not easing the effects of one too many alcopops the night before probably says a lot about me at the time, but some how I imagine that that feeling was still better than having bought it and been disappointed because you were always looking for better.

It's a bit high and mighty to call No Rain, No Roof a philosophy, but maybe it's a mindset about enjoying the simple things in life, wherever you can.  I love my MX5 because it unlocks so many of the great things about a soft top sports car (my face hurt from grinning the first year we got one) whilst being pretty affordable and surprisingly reliable.  It's no Porsche, and much as I'd love to own one of those one day, I don't spent my time in the 5 worrying about it not having the power of 300 horses, or being regarded as a hairdressers car, or not being remotely new or shiny, I just throw the roof down, turn up some mildly naff tunes and enjoy, after all, you're here for a good time, not a long time, don't spend it all chasing perfect.